In this README file I describe the code that was written for completing all the requirements of the Course Project as outlined here: https://class.coursera.org/getdata-010/human_grading. 

**Observe** that if you do not have a Windows 7 operating system  you may have to modify some of the parameters in the code in order to get it to run properly.

# Step 1: Download the "zipped" data from Internet into a folder called "human_data" which is saved in the working directory.

# Step 2: Unzip the folder called Dataset. After unzipping the working files are  located in a folder called "UCI HAR Dataset".

To gain insight into what files to use from the "UCI HAR Dataset" I read the discussion in the Coursera forum here https://class.coursera.org/getdata-010/forum/thread?thread_id=49. 
I learned that the subfolders in both the train and test folders called "Inertial Signals" were not required. 
The data in the files from the "Inertial Signals" folder were however used by the engineers who performed these studies
to generate the "features variables" by mathematical transformations, which in turn
were used for distinguishing the following human activities: WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING.
The signals were measured for 30 different individuals using sensors from Smartphones. Thus the variables of this dataset consist of: the subject being measured, the activity the subject
was enaged in (WALKING, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, etc) and the measurement signals (from 561 different "perspectives" or features) generated by that particular subject engaging
in a particular activity. The data associated with these three different variables 
was in turn divided into two  groups, a test group and a training group. So my strategy here was to load the files containing the values
associated with these three different variables (features, subject and activity) into R and then merge the files from the two different groups into a complete data set encompassing
all subjects, all activities and all features "under one roof", so to say. However, according to the project instructions, the features data relevant for this assignment had to be associated with
either a mean or standard deviation result. So only a subset of the features data is required.

# Step 3: Load the subject values from each group. Note that these files have no headers.

# Step 4: Load the activity values from each group. Note that these files have no headers.

# Step 5: Load the features (all 561) values from each group. Note that these files have no headers.

# Step 6: Make appropriate headers for all the column variables associated with activity.

# Step 7: Combine the training and test tables from steps 3, 4 and 5 above using the function rbind().

#Step 8: Subset allFeatures from step 6 above for only column names containing the substrings "mean" or "std".

# Step 10: Combine allSubjects, allActivities and allFeatures from step 7 using the cbind() function twice.

# Step 11:  Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. Rename some of the columns to make them more "reader-friendly".

# Step 12: Apply mean function to dataset mean_ std_Data for each subject and activity. Rename this file "tidyData" and write it to the working directory.






